Sources:
https://www.nationalgeographic.org/encyclopedia/erosion/
https://www.dpi.nsw.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0003/255153/fact-sheet-1-types-of-erosion.pdf

Rainfall produces four types of soil erosion: splash erosion, sheet erosion, rill erosion, and gully erosion. 
Splash erosion describes the impact of a falling raindrop, which can scatter tiny soil particles as far as 0.6 meters. 
Sheet erosion describes erosion caused by runoff. 
Rill erosion describes erosion that takes place as runoff develops into discrete streams. 
Gully erosion is the stage in which soil particles are transported through large channels. Gullies carry water for brief periods of time during rainfall or snowmelt but appear as small valleys or crevasses during dry seasons.

Splash erosion: 
Occurs when raindrops hit bare soil. 
Impact breaks up soil and individual soil particles are ‘splashed’ onto the soil surface. 
The soil forms a crust that reduces infiltration and increases runoff.
(Surface (minimal) effect on erosion)

Sheet erosion:
The removal of soil in thin layers by raindrop impact and shallow surface flow. 
Soil loss is so gradual that the erosion usually goes unnoticed, but the cumulative impact accounts for large soil losses. 
Vegetation cover is vital to prevent sheet erosion because it protects the soil, impedes waterflow and encourages water to infiltrate into the soil.
(Surface (minimal) effect on erosion)

Rill erosion:
Shallow drainage lines less than 30cm deep. 
Erodes the soil. 
Rill erosion can be reduced by reducing the volume and speed of surface water with grassed waterways and Rill erosion is often described as the intermediate stage between sheet erosion and gully erosion.
(Surface (medium) effect on erosion) 

Gully erosion: 
Gullies are channels deeper than 30cm
over time lose less soil than sheet and rill erosion. 
Collapse and slumping of sidewalls usually contribute a greater proportion of soil loss.
(Surface (medium to high) effect on erosion)

Tunnel erosion: 
occurs when surface water moves into and through dispersive subsoils. Dispersive soils are poorly structured so they erode easily when wet.
clays are the first to be removed by the water flow. 
As the space enlarges, more water can pour in and further erode the soil. As the tunnel expands, parts of the tunnel roof collapse leading to potholes and gullies. 
(Surface (high) effect on erosion)
